Revised ECK upgrade instructions (#6088)
elastic/cloud-on-k8s: docs/operating-eck/upgrading-eck.asciidoc

This page provides instructions on how to upgrade the ECK operator.

For upgrades of Elastic Stack applications like Elasticsearch or Kibana, check <<{p}-upgrading-stack,Upgrade the Elastic Stack version>>.

[float]
[id="{p}-ga-upgrade"]
== Before you upgrade to ECK {eck_version}

> The upgrade process results in an update to all the existing managed resources. This potentially triggers a rolling restart of all Elasticsearch and Kibana pods. This <<{p}-beta-to-ga-rolling-restart, list>> details the affected target versions that will cause a rolling restart. If you have a large Elasticsearch cluster or multiple Elastic Stack deployments, the rolling restart could cause a performance degradation. When you plan to upgrade ECK for production workloads, take into consideration the time required to upgrade the ECK operator plus the time required to roll all managed workloads and Elasticsearch clusters. Furthermore, <<{p}-beta-to-ga-rolling-restart, Guidance>> is available on controlling this process more gracefully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The upgrade process results in an update to all the existing managed resources. This potentially triggers a rolling restart of all Elasticsearch and Kibana pods. This <<{p}-beta-to-ga-rolling-restart, list>> details the affected target versions that will cause a rolling restart. If you have a large Elasticsearch cluster or multiple Elastic Stack deployments, the rolling restart could cause a performance degradation. When you plan to upgrade ECK for production workloads, take into consideration the time required to upgrade the ECK operator plus the time required to roll all managed workloads and Elasticsearch clusters. Check for more information on how to <<{p}-beta-to-ga-rolling-restart, control the rolling restarts during the upgrade>>.
```

Before upgrading, refer to the <<release-notes-{eck_version}, release notes>> to make sure that the release does not contain any breaking changes that could affect you. The <<release-highlights-{eck_version},release highlights document>> provides more details and possible workarounds for any breaking changes or known issues in each release.

Note that the release notes and highlights only list the changes since the last release. If you are skipping over any intermediate versions during the upgrade -- such as going directly from 1.0.0 to {eck_version} -- review the release notes and highlights of each of the skipped releases to fully understand all the breaking changes you might encounter during and after the upgrade.

[float]
[id="{p}-upgrade-instructions"]
== Upgrade instructions

[float]
=== Upgrading from ECK < 1.7

> Release 1.7.0 moved the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definitions/[CustomResourceDefinitions] (CRD) used by ECK to the v1 version. If you upgrade from a previous version of ECK, the new version of the CRDs replaces the existing CRDs. If you cannot remove the current ECK installation because you have production workloads that must not be deleted, the following approach is recommended.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we should also remind the user to pay attention to the supported K8S versions stated in `{eck_version}/k8s_supported_versions.html`. We have been dealing with a couple of API changes and removals, I think users should be careful about what K8S API is supported by a given version of ECK (on a second thought maybe it should be mentioned in a documentation about upgrading K8S, not ECK).

If you are using ECK through an OLM-managed distribution channel like link:https://operatorhub.io[operatorhub.io] or the OpenShift OperatorHub then the CRD version upgrade will be handled by OLM for you and you do not need to take special action.

[float]
=== Upgrading from ECK 1.9 or earlier

Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) and OpenShift OperatorHub users that run with automatic upgrades enabled, are advised to set the `set-default-security-context` link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-operator-config.html[operator flag] explicitly before upgrading to ECK 2.0 or later. If not set ECK can fail to link:https://github.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/issues/5061[auto-detect] the correct security context configuration and Elasticsearch Pods may not be allowed to run.

[float]
=== Upgrading from ECK 2.0 or later

> There are no special instructions to follow if you upgrade from any 2.x version to {eck_version}. Use the upgrade method applicable to your installation method of choice.

Author: I think that changes the sense somewhat. The user needs to chose the upgrade method that matches the way the operator was installed initially. For example if the originally installed via Helm they have to do `helm update`, if they used YAML manifests then then they have to apply the updated manifests etc.
